# Load Balancers

## Introduction

- Load Balancers are used to distribute traffic across multiple servers.

## Prerequisite

- Basic understanding of [Networking Basics](../009/Readme.md)

## Use Case

- A load balancer can be used to distribute traffic across multiple servers.
- A good example of this is a web server farm, where multiple web servers are used to handle the load of users connecting to a website.
- Another real world example is an ecommerce site that uses multiple web servers to handle the traffic generated by Black Friday sales.
## Cloud Research

- I have learned that there are two types of load balancers:
  - Layer 4 Load Balancer
  - Layer 7 Load Balancer
- Layer 4 Load Balancer
    - Layer 4 load balancers look at information at the transport layer to make decisions about how to distribute traffic.
    - Layer 4 load balancers forward network packets to and from the upstream server, performing Network Address Translation (NAT) between clients and the upstream server.
    - Layer 4 load balancers are transparent to the client.
    - Layer 4 load balancers are generally faster than Layer 7 load balancers, but they cannot make intelligent decisions about the content of the HTTP requests.
- Layer 7 Load Balancer
    - Layer 7 load balancers look at information at the application layer to make decisions about how to distribute traffic.
    - Layer 7 load balancers forward network packets to and from the upstream server, performing Network Address Translation (NAT) between clients and the upstream server.
    - Layer 7 load balancers are transparent to the client.
    - Layer 7 load balancers are generally slower than Layer 4 load balancers, but they can make intelligent decisions about the content of the HTTP requests.

 - I went through the [Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/distribute-load-with-load-balancer/) module on Load Balancers.
 - I also went through the [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/) and [GCP](https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing) documentation on Load Balancers.


## Try yourself

- You can try out the [Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/distribute-load-with-load-balancer/) module on Load Balancers.

## ☁️ Cloud Outcome

- I was able to learn about Load Balancers and how they are used to distribute traffic across multiple servers.

## Social Proof

[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/pankaj-biradar_100daysofcloud-loadbalancers-learning-activity-7133084215348273152-AqH2)
